Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, now that we have a list of some dumb competitors,
we now need to talk a little bit more about how we
can chop this list up and better strategize.
Now, there are a lot of different shades of competitors out there.
There is the wimpy, not trying very hard competitor,
you might have a, let's say, scatterbrain and
doing everything competitor, and you might have a big scary competitor that is looking straight at you.
We need to sort these beasts out
so we don't have a cluttered mess of threats.
Don't be Chicken Little, the sky is not falling.
In order to do that effectively and be effective as a product manager we need to introduce the four different types of competitors.
Now, if you have an MBA, good for you. Skip this lecture.
But if you do not, I think you should stay in
because you'll learn something.
There are four different types of competitors.
There's direct competitors, indirect, potential, and substitute.
In order to explain the four, let's use a terrible metaphor.
Now, let's just imagine that you are running a restaurant that serves Italian food, and specifically you like to sell the tortellini.
Tortellini is the pasta that has like cheese and meat
inside of a thing of pasta.
I'm not really an expert in this.
Now, direct competitors are competitors that are not only going after the same target customer group as you are,
they're also trying to solve the same problem
you are. Now, direct competitors usually have very similar
solutions and users are often going to have
to make a direct and conscious decision between using your product and using the competitor's product.
In the restaurant metaphor,
these are the guys that are literally across the street from you serving Italian food in a fancy dining
atmosphere as you, with the same price range,
oh and also they specialize in tortellini. Now, indirect  competitors are competitors that solve the same problem,
but generally in a different way and for a different
target customer group. They could be serving a smaller
subset within your target customer group or they might include your target customer group but they have a much larger market,
it just so happens to also address your group.
They could also be targeting entirely different verticals or sectors.
In the restaurant metaphor,
this is the restaurant that's in a different neighborhood that serves Greek food that people often confuse for Italian food.
Now, the third type of competitor, potential competitors, are competitors that offer something to the same
target customer group or a similar target customer group,
but they don't address the same problem you
do, or they don't have anything remotely
in the same product line as you. I also like to refer to
these as peripheral competitors, because you like to keep them in your periphery, because they're worth keeping tabs on.
These are the metaphorical dolphins in your tuna net.
You were looking for tuna, but you got some
dolphin in there. In the restaurant metaphor,
this would be like an Italian grocery store.
They don't serve hot meals on location, but they could
foreseeably add chairs and a restaurant function.
Now, the last one, our substitute competitors.
What exactly is a substitute?
It's a product that solves the same core problem but it's not angled or delivered in even remotely the same way.
It also doesn't generally target the same people.
Now, with an Italian restaurant, you're probably targeting people who want to go out to eat,
want Italian food, and are also hungry.
Now, a substitute might be
DiGiorno's pizza. It solves the core problem,
which is you're hungry, you want Italian food,
technically, but it's not going out to eat.
It's not even remotely anything like it,
but you could substitute it for going out to eat.
Now, how this relates to what we're doing in this section?
Well, it's actually rather obvious. Go back to your list.
Now, remember, in the last lecture I was using GoPro, so I made my own list of competing products for
GoPro before we had it in known and unknown.
Now, what I'm going to suggest is you actually get rid of those and instead list off each one based off of
the four different types that I've suggested to you.
Are they a direct competitor, an indirect,
a potential, or a substitute competitor?
Once you have that, then what you can do is you can prioritize in your head and have a much cleaner idea
of what the competitive landscape looks like.
Put at the top direct competitors,
we are the most concerned with those, put below those indirect competitors, because we are also interested
in what they're doing, not as much as the direct,
then we look at potential competitors
and the last one is substitute competitors.
Now, the reason why you want to rank these in kind of a tier system, Tier 1 - direct, Tier 2 - indirect, Tier
3 - potential, Tier 4 - substitute, is that Tier 1s are the ones that we're concerned the most about,
but also we need to make sure that our product offerings
are as competitive as possible to those.
Do we care whether or not our product or feature is competitive to the other three? Yes, but not as much
as the direct. The substitutes, we need to at least make sure that we are a viable alternative to, potentials,
we need to make sure that our product offering is something they can't themselves do easily, and indirect,
we, again, just need to make sure that we're not losing
too many customers to them.
And there you go. That's what that would look like
under the four different categories.
That's a lot easier to understand.
Now you could direct your attention to the ones that actually matter.
All you have to do is dig into them and see exactly what they do.
These up here in the direct category do almost the exact same thing as a GoPro Hero 4. In the indirect category
we have things like the CyberShot and the PowerShot, which were cameras that could be used as action cameras.
In fact, they're used for moving objects and they do solve that problem but they're not for the same people.
They're targeted for people who want to take videos of their kids' tennis match or track and field match,
not strapping it to their head and jumping out of a plane.
We also see things like the Vievu, which I thought was a GoPro direct competitor, it turns out it's not.
It's a body camera for police officers.
So, same problem, need to shoot things in action settings that are small and portable, but not the same people.
And then there are a couple other ones. Under potential I put the Eyeshot 360, which I realize actually
is a Wi-Fi enabled camera and they target it primarily for surveillance means, like putting on your dash
and recording, or putting it in your apartment
and recording - not the same problem,
not really the same people, but they have
the same expertise, the same general area,
they could be a potential competitor. And the last one is a substitute, which is Opteka, which I didn't
realize was not a competitor, it's actually a grip handle that you can put other cameras on and then use it like an action camera.
So that would be a substitute.
They could use it, but it doesn't
solve the problem at all the same way.
Ok, guys. Questions, concerns, post in the group discussion,
otherwise we're moving on to more analysis
of how to judge your competitors.